A lot of other videos will rank stuff by a mix of their opinion and being objective, putting some stuff lower because they fail game design points, but I don’t care this is 100% my biased and my messed up opinion, and to show this

#15 Tiny Huge Island, I just don’t like it. It’s cool you can go into the big and small painting, but why would you go in the huge one. The small island is frustratingly small, and the huge one is just annoyingly huge. The Cheep Chomp like why. Aesthetically it’s just another grass stage, nothing new. There’s the wigler cave where it’s too easy to die, and the wiggler boss is just too easy. It’s not even an original Mario concept. The stars are pretty par for the course for Mario 64 standards. I don’t really got much else to say. bottom of the list.

#14 Hazy Maze Cave, just, ugh. It’s ugly and annoying to play. Half of the stars aren’t bad if you know speedrunning tricks like I do, but the 100 coin star, 8 red coin star, the other maze star, these are just annoying. Also I should mention you get the metal cap in this stage, a powerup so useless I made a video on how useless it is. But people criticize the star “watch for rolling rocks” because the star hint is basically useless, but let me defend it. The actual star isn’t challenging, sm64’s stars can be split up into 2 groups, “challenging” to get to the star and challenging to know where it's at/how to get it. Most stars are in the first group, but stars like this are in the 2nd. You're supposed to notice oh, rolling rocks, it's in the rolling rocks room, maybe it's up these walls i can wall jump up. Same kind of thing for blast away the wall, but no the stage still sucks. It’s the fing sewers. 

#13 Tall Tall Mountain, it’s just an average stage. People complain about how huge the stage is and how it’s bad, 3 quick tips. There’s wind here, go up here (red coin area), and jump up here (right before the top). But ehhhh. Get to the top of the mountain and deal with the annoying rolling balls, then, go back up. Then, go back up. Then, go back up to the slide, then go back up to cheese blast to the lonely mushroom. Uhhhhhhhhhh. I don’t remember if I’ve mentioned this but fun fact the slide is split up into 3 areas, it’s really hard to notice this ingame, it’s just a minor lag spike each time. This is another stage I just don’t have much to say about it.

#12 Dire Dire Docks, from here the stages start to get good. As annoying as the lack of land, 100 coin star, and the teleporter, and lag are, it's a fun stage. It looks really good, stars are ok, but it’s a lot of swimming, one thing mario 64 does really good. I don’t really like how long the tunnel is though, I get it’s because these 2 areas are different areas and they need to hide the loading zone, but ehhh. You could’ve put something there. Also why is the skybox bob omb battlefields? Jolly roger bay does the same thing, but in its first star at least it’s different colored. What I’ll say is that the mario 64 ds version of this stage is better due to the land and just a little more coins cause come on 106.. But I dunno, I like swimming in this game. The chest star in this stage is actually somewhat difficult, and hah mario’s a stripper. 

#11 Wet Dry World, as annoying and cliche the negative emotional aura is, idunno it’s something interesting. But something about the main area is fun to do with no water. It’s just fun for speedrunning, and as disturbing feeling as the town is, it’s fun to jump around the houses. I’m obligated to mention the skybox, but what I hate the most about it is this blue bar at the bottom. Yeah you can’t see it in game, but still. The stage does look pretty ugly, and the music I forgot to mention earlier with hmc is pretty bad, but I barely listen to game audio when playing games, even right now as of writing this I'm watching youtube (dhmis explained) But eh, the stars are decent. The first star is pretty dumb like whos gonna slowly use the arrow lifts, just long jump.uhhh the wrong warp works there that’s cool. I do have to maybe thank the stage as my wdw video is still my most popular video, idunno. Not a bad stage  

#10 ssl. I like the pyramid, the best part is the exploit. *wait i wrote this part of the script like 2 months ago which exploit was i referring to* The outside is extremely ugly, getting the red coins is annoying, this area is useless, the tornado is annoying, why do I like this stage. The boss fight is cool but admittedly easy, but still cool, God my standards for what's “cool” on the n64 are so low they get away with a lot. The music is disappointing, something like dry dry Desert would fit more, not LLL’s. SSl is just the most forgettable stage outside of ttm. But the pyramid is fun and, i forgot to finish the script i was gonna add something else good about the stage and i forgot whoops, uhhh fun fact because i dont know when i'll get the opportunity to say this did you know the quick sand is an object so the actual level model has large holes in it. You’re never getting your time back. 

9: Tick Tock Clock, this stage is most annoying here due to the angle of the wall. People often complain about the no ground at the bottom, hey guys, this is the 2nd to last stage, it's supposed to be difficult. People also complain about invisible walls and ok listen, I've never had issues with invisible walls in the original game somehow except for the log in ttm, but me and a friend just played though star road and there’s invisible walls left to right so stop your complaining and play star road to see how good you had it in the original game. Also tip you can do every star with the stage frozen. I like the aesthetic, I like the idea, I like the difficulty, and I love the stars. The red coin star here to show off the gimmick of the level, and the rest of the stars see you climbing the stage gradually, I like that. It’s disappointing that it just uses slider instead of an actual original song. I can understand why because space limitations and time crunch, but still. The camera at times can get annoying, but eh I’ve played so much of the game I’m used to it. *and speaking of star road there were so many times I just sat there for 5 seconds doing nothing but waiting for the camera to move this is barely related I just want to complain.

8: BOB yeah it’s not #1 I said it. It’s probably the best stage objectively, but I dunno. This stage had the most time put into it, and you can definitely tell. The stars are for the most part all really good, there’s only 1 “get here, ok here’s the star” star, no parts feel empty or unfinished, and when doing basically anything 3d related I always go to bob. If I boot up gmod out of boredom I always go here or hyrule from oot. It’s a classic stage. It’s one of those places in games you just want to visit irl despite the fact that there’s stuff everywhere trying to kill you cus you know there’s a war going on. Something about this stage that I find funny is how much you avoid it in speedruns. For 120 star yeah that’s inevitable, 70 star you get the behind the cage star and island star, and for 16 star it's faster to use a lblj to skip into bowser 1 then it is to get the behind the cage star. Overall it’s a classic well rounded good stage. And that music. I know 2 stages so far have used this music but I wanna talk about the music when I get to the stage that uses it first for the most part.

7: RR if people didn't hate me for the others people will sure hate me for this. “The carpet rides are too long” then skip them. “It’s too hard” it’s the last stage of the game no duh, also no it isn’t. It’s ugly, not really. “There’s no theme, it’s just blocks in the sky” ok? As if that’s bad, as if there’s other “blocks in the sky” themed levels outside of bowser. It’s a fun stage to go though, half the stars can be obtained quickly, and the other 3, even with my pretty bad adhd I really don’t care. It also just uses slider as the music which is also pretty annoying, but what am I gonna do about it. People complain about the tricky triangle star being too hard, I’m sorry what? Here look at the difficulty of this star. People also complain about the blue coins, if by the final stage you’re not good enough to wall jump up here you’re not gonna be 100%ing the game anyways your point? I like the boat, this is a cool looking block, I wish the house had more on it, this stage has 1 cube in the level model anyways so. Though for speedruns this stage looks like absolute hell, especially the lakitu bounce. Anyone wanna debate this stage being good? Anyone?

6: ccm, I like snow areas, I mentioned this in the last video, they’re fun. And this stage is fun. The slide is fun, heh die baby *play clip* I like the back alley way *beep* wall kicks will work area. NOt sure why. Something weird about this stage is the skybox, like I don’t know why but this doesn’t scream ccm like this screams bob. Idunno it’s weird when I first saw the skybox outside of the game I had to look at images of ccm to even realize that that is indeed the skybox. But the stage is fun, sliding around in this stage is fun, the theme is fun, the stars are cool, overall good stage. Hah I’m gonna go die, hah nope. It’s a pretty short stage but fun to go through, A tier. And that music oh my god, better than bob omb battlefield, people are gonna crucify me. 

#5 JRB, I used to dislike this stage because it’s gloomy and not “jolly”, here I am listening to depressing music while writing this. It’s a comforting environment. Part of what makes people feel creeped out when playing wdw is being closed in, but with this it feels like you’re exploring a no longer active volcano. Not to mention this is the first water level which is amazing cus as i said earlier, mario swimming controls amazingly. And just that song, nothing can beat that song. Something really cool is that this is the track for this level, but it sounds like this when you get in the water, and like this when you go into the cave. I also don’t know how to explain it, but the looks of the level are just comforting. This stage is also the stage that changes the most throughout completing it, it stars off with this fog that goes away after getting a star and never comes back even after selecting the first star, which is sad since I like it. You lure this eel out of the flooded ship, now the eel is hanging out in this cave and the ship is afloat again. Compared to bob where the only differences are big bob omb and koopa the quick appearing and disappearing. A criticism for the stage is that there’s a very low coin count making the 100 coin star long, but it’s such a small stage it’s not a big deal. This is just a nice place to be, despite this time the things trying to kill me are in the water, I also want to visit this place in real life. Does anyone know how to transition cus I don’t.

#4 BBH *play a lot of big house clips* it’s a meme but big house levels are cool. I criticized Ice Palace in a previous video for not having furniture, but uh, better? Doesn’t really matter, It’s fun to go though, and I like the small thing. Sadly the music of this stage sucks, it’s just *BBBBUUUUHHHHHHHHHHHHH* all the ghost house levels before and after this game have actual songs not *BUHHHH* the stage has the issue with goldeneye 007 has where it tries to look realistic which ages it more than something like bob where it’s overly cartoony. People criticize this stage for one star being kill all the ghosts, the next being kill the ghosts in the basement, then kill the ghost on the top, then get the 8 red coins, then 2 original stars. But with how broken the ghost’s hitboxes are I just can’t care. But the book door thing is cool but I dunno I skipped it. This stage has some fun skips, jumping up to the 2nd floor is fun. Killing the ghosts is fun, and I just really like the idea of exploring a mansion, wait.. (lm). Wait.., this stage is just ugly, has bad music, and has repetitive stars, yet it’s 4th place just because you like the broken hitboxes, skips, and idea around it-yes I’m not wrong you are. 

#3 WF, so, so far I’m sure you’ve noticed I have a biased for stages with a lot of glitches *play slo mo clip from earlier* and skips, this def isn’t the case, *cannonless* oh, *wf 3* oh, *goes on top the island skips* ohh. Not a single star in this stage doesn’t have a huge time saving skip. I used to practice 16 star speedruns, I never got very good at it, but in the route I used you went here for all stars but red and 100 coin. The stars here are cool anyways, fight king womp, now he’s a tower. Shoot a wall or fall at it both work. Falling from the sky into a cage and because I can’t go a sm64 video without mentioning my distaste for sm64ds, the ds version of this star sucks. But actually I really like the ds version of this stage, while the textures are far inferior and of course the glitches are patched, I really like the grass area, I don’t know why. I find it kind of ironic though that I really enjoy stages that are fast to go through, so the stages I spend the least time in, idunno. But when I think of sm64, I think of this stage. If I have an idea for something stupid, I’ll do it to bob as much as I will to wf. An issue some stages have is that they feel very empty, bob doesn’t feel like this because they spent so much time on it, and wf doesn’t because it’s just small. It feels like there’s notable stuff in every corner, except this pole, I’ve played prob hundreds of hours of this game and I forget that this exists sometimes. Anyways, wait what’s that? A diversion, now no one will know about how bad this transition is. (the storm)

#2, LLL. So I got 3d World on switch recently. I’ve owned the Wii U version since 2015ish, and as of writing this I just finished getting all green stars, and playing it made me appreciate the lava physics in sm64. In Mario 64 you lose 3 heart pieces and bounce way up, where as 3dw even small pits of lava you just instantly die. This is so annoying for stages like this. And with bounce lava you can do a lot of skips (which you know i like), long jump to the eyeball, go onto the spinny thing, long jump to the bully platform and done. And the whole bouncing physics makes this stage so fun. It’s been criticized for being basically put a thing here, some bullies there, a cube there with another cube there, and maybe a more detailed cube there, perfect. While that is a valid point for it not being 2nd place, people say that as if there was a massive cube here cube there level design problem, when there wasn't. This stage is the first time the bullies were added, and check out how much Nintendo loves them. They were in mario 64, mario 64 ds, it was gonna be in galaxy, it's in 3dw, nintendo loves them. Idunno I like pushing them around. And of course, the volcano. This is one of the 2 stages with a sub area that’s more than just cave with 8 red coins or 70 million coins in ice, but unfortunately both stars are just “get to the top” and the camera gets weird sometimes. And because I’m nice, the floor texture of inside the volcano looks like reese's pieces, just wanted to ruin it for you. And the stars in this stage are pretty alright. Kill the big bully, kill the 3 small bullies, then a big one. The easiest red coin star ever, get to the top of the volcano, get to the top of the volcano with a different route, and the log star that one's cool. Unfortunately this stage has the same music as SSL, which isn’t a good song really, but this skybox oh my god it’s pretty. *pause* *diversion again*

#1 SL I’m biased. I said this in my paper Mario video and earlier, but I like snow stages. Now why isn’t ccm 2nd, just because honestly it’s not as good looking and just a little too big. What makes this one better? Snow, no rock, and we get to bully the bully very efficiently. You can skip pretty much all of the first star with a cannon shot. The igloo is pretty cool, sure you can consider it bad game design to give you so many coins at once, but it’s fun so who cares. I’ve talked about my issue with the spindrift requirements before, so I won’t here. Fun fact apparently the intended method for getting the first star is to jump on the penguin's head. This stage also holds one of the three impossible coins, while not being as interesting as the others, mostly due to it being easy to obtain, still worth mentioning. What about criticisms of the stage, well the spindrift, this entire area is useless, similar to the spindrifts, if you break the shell, sucks to suck you’re not getting the red coin. This could be so easily fixed if you just make the shell, along with the spindrifts respawn, however, you get to ride the shell which is fun so I barely care. For chapter 7 in paper Mario I said that I liked it as much because it’s a snow chapter, but said disregarding snow it’s still really good, and sl is the same to me. It would prob be somewhere around #4 or #5, but look at how good this stage looks, and the snow physics in mario 64 are perfect. In other games it’s just slippery and annoying, but mario 64 it takes forever to slow down so you can do stuff like this, and if you want to slow down, just turn around, jump, ground pound, kick, something. It’s slidey not slippery. After looking at some other rankings, they’ve said that it’s good, just not the best, what’s wrong with u guys.And for the record Matt knows what he’s talking about. 

In my last ranking I said I was surprised with how many chapters I didn’t like, and if I made this video 4 years ago maybe I’d say the same thing, I used to think pretty much every later stage was bad, but when I replayed the game I realized that honestly the stages are definitely important to enjoying the game, but even the worst stage is mildly enjoyable due to, you guessed it, the controls **and skips**. And only 3 stages i outright don’t like, which is an overall grade of 80%, which is a b-. Not the worst, still “above average”, so you guys get a pass, good job, you get the validation of an 16 year old white kid with 300 subscribers 25 years after the game came out, I’m sure you feel so honored. Also if you watch my videos and this isn’t the first video of mine you’ve seen, you would know probably the biggest issues with my videos is my upload schedule, and I really wanna try fixing this, so I’m gonna try to try to do the impossible, 2-3 uploads in a single month, I know crazy. So either I’m gonna be happy with how this month goes, or every comment is gonna be the generic annoying as hell “hah this aged well xD” comments that you see on everything, I’m just rambling at this point. Ok videos over i'm heading to mcdonalds what you guys want. 
